Software Requirements Specifications for Mwanyi ecommerce platform

Introduction:
The purpose of this document is to provide a detailed software requirements specification for Mwanyi ecommerce platform. 
The system will allow farmers to get acess to buyers for their coffee.

Functional Requirements:
1. User Registration:
The system should allow users to register and create an account. Users will need to provide their firstname,
lastname, nickname, business name,email address, phone number,password, region, district name,
quantity of coffee for usertype farmer and price of coffee for usertype buyer.

2. User Login:
The system should allow registered users to log in using their email address and password.

Technical Requirements:
1. Programming Language:
The system should be developed using a web-based programming language of React js.

2. Database Management:
The system should use a relational database management system (RDBMS) to store user data, orders, and coffee information.


Conclusion:
This software requirements specification outlines the functional and technical requirements for Mwanyi ecommerce platform.
 The system will provide security to the users.


Software Design Description of Mwanyi ecommerce platform.

It is an ecommerce platform connecting coffee farmers to markets(Potential buyers) system which deals with
different information on coffee, designed to provide farmers and buyers  with the ability to trade.
It aims at providing a good experience for both farmers and the buyers while ensuring that the system is secure.

Mwanyi ecommerce platform is built using different independent services each with a specific function;

Database: The system uses a relational database to store data and consisting of mainly the user's table;

Users' table contains information on registering, logging in and logging out a user
It also stores user information, including usernames, passwords and contact information.
It stores addresses that is the district and region where ther user is located.

User Interface:
The web application has a user-friendly interface that is easy to navigate  through and it includes different sections;
Home: the landing page displays popular foods provided by the restaurant and the services provided.
About us: this section gives clear description .
SignUp: gives details on how a client can register to access different services of the restaurant.
Login: identifies the old client by the initial credentials that were provided.
Dashboard:
Coffee info:

Security:
The system protects user information improving its security by using security measures;
HTTPS encryption for all data in transit.
User authentication using JWT tokens.
Input validation and sanitization to prevent SQL injection attacks.
Use of password hashing to protect user passwords.

Conclusion:
Mwanyi-ecommerce platform is designed to link coffee farmers to coffee buyers inorder to improve
 coffee market acessibilty in Uganda.
Status codes
400 =>bad request; a user misses required parameters, invalid data types.
401 => unauthorised; a user is not authenticated.
404 => not found; a user puts a request does not exist in the server.
409 => conflict; a user puts a resources that already exists.
200 => ok; request is successful.
201 => ok; a resource has been successful created.

